what do we know about the future
difficult questions simple answer
nothing we cannot predict the future we
only can create a vision of the future
how it might be a vision which reveals
disruptive ideas which is inspiring and
this is the most important reason which
breaks the chains of coming thinking
there are a lot of people who created
their own vision about the future for
instance this vision here from the early
20th century it says here that this is
the ocean plane of the future it takes
only one and a half days to cross the
Atlantic Ocean today we know that this
future vision didn't come true so this
is our largest airplane which we have at
the elbows to the CI 3 idea and it's
quite huge so a lot of people fit in
there and it's technically completely
different than the vision I've shown to
you I'm working in a team with Airbus
and we have created our vision about a
more sustainable future of aviation so
sustainability is quite important for us
which should incorporate social but as
well as environmental and economic
values so we have created a very
disruptive structure which mimics the
design of bone or a skeleton which
occurs in nature so that's why it looks
maybe a little bit weird especially to
the people who deal with structures in
general but at least it's just a kind of
artwork to explore our ideas about a
different future what are the main
customers of the future so we have the
old we have the Youngs we have the
uprising power of women and there's one
mega trend which affects all of us these
are the future and from attics so our
children are getting larger but at the
same time we are growing in two
different directions so what we need is
space inside the aircraft inside a very
dense area these people have different
needs so we see a clear need of active
health promotion especially in the case
of the old people we want to be treated
as individuals we like to be productive
throughout the entire travel
and what we are doing in the future is
we want to use the latest man-machine
interface and we want to integrate this
and show this in one product so we
combine these needs with technology
seems so for instance we're asking
ourselves how can we create more light
how can we bring more natural light into
the airplane
so this airplane has no windows anymore
for example what about the data and
communication software which we need in
the future my belief is that the
airplane of the future will get its own
consciousness it will be more like a
living organism than just a collection
of very complex technology this will be
very different in the future it will
communicate directly with the passenger
in its environment and then we are
talking also about materials synthetic
biology for example and my belief is
that we will get more and more new
materials which we can put into
structural later on because structure is
one of the key issues in aircraft design
so let's compare the old world with a
new world I just want to show you here
what we are doing today so this is a
bracket of an a380 Crewe's compartment
it takes a lot of weight and it follows
the classical design rules this here is
an equal bracket for the same purpose it
follows the design of bone the design
process is completely different at one
hand we have one point 2 kilos and at
the other hand 0.6 kilos so this
technology 3d printing and new design
rules really help us to reduce the
weight which is the biggest issue in
aircraft design because it's directly
linked to greenhouse gas emissions push
this idea a little bit forward so how
does nature build its components and
structures so nature is very clever it
puts all the informations and to these
small building blocks which we call DNA
and nature builds large skeletons all of
it so we see a bottom-up approach here
because all the informations as I said
are inside the DNA and this is combined
with a top-down approach because what we
are doing and our daily life is we train
our muscles which we train our skeleton
and it's getting stronger and the same
approach can be applied to technology as
well so
our building block is carbon nanotubes
for example to create a large rivet
'less skeleton in the end of the day how
this looks in particular you can show it
here so imagine you have carbon
nanotubes growing inside a 3d printer
and they are embedded inside a matrix of
plastic and follow the forces which
appear in your component and you've got
trillions of them so you'll really align
them to woods and you take these woods
and make morphological optimization so
you make structure sub structures which
allows you to transmit electrical energy
or data and now we take this material
combine this with a top-down approach
and build bigger and bigger components
so how does the airplane of the future
might look like so we have very
different seats which adapt to the shape
of the future passenger with a different
format ryx we have social areas inside
the aircraft which might turn into a
place where you can play virtual golf
and finally this Bionic structure which
is covered by a transparent biopolymer
membrane will really change radical how
we look at aircrafts in the future so s
Jason Silva said if we can imagine it
why not doing so see you in the future
thank you
you